# What chapter in `Kotlin in Action`?
Chapter 1 - Kotlin: what and why

# Introduction
In this chapter, you can read characteristics (traits) of Kotlin.  
I write down the content I grasped.  

# Characteristics of Kotlin
## Some keywords
- Concise
- Safe
- Pragmatic
- Interoperability with Java code

## Primary traits
### Target platforms: server-side, Android, anywhere Java runs
* Java
  - Extremely populer language  
  - Used in a broad variety of environments: smart cards, data centers, etc.

* Kotlin
  - Can be used in environments mentioned above
  - Server-side code: backends of web applications
  - Mobile applications (Android)
  - iOS devices through Intel Multi OS Engine
  - Desktop app by using Kotlin with JavaFX
  - Can be compiled  to JavaScript &rarr; Able to run Kotlin code in the browser

### Statically typed
The type of every expression in a program is **known at compile time**.  
&harr; *Dynamically typed* programming language such as Groovy, JRuby, Python, etc.  

Some benefits of static typing
  * Performanc: Calling methods is fast
  * Reliability: Compiler's verification of code &rarr; fewer chances for crashes at runtime
  * Maintainability: Easy working with unfamiliar code (you can see what kind of objects the code is working with)
  * Tool support: Enabling reliable refactorings, precise code completion, and other IDE features. It indicates tools (i.e., IDE and compiler) know type information of objects and their properties, and thus they can provide more reliable and precise aid (e.g., refactoring, autocorrection, error detection, etc.).

### Type inference
Explicit type specification **is not mandatory**.  
The type of a variable can automaticcally be inferred and determined from the context.  
&rarr; You can omit the type declaration.

### Nullable types
It helps writing more reliable and safer programs.  
Possible null pointer exceptions can be detected **at compile time**.

### Functional and object-oriented
* First-class functions: Working & dealing with functions **as if they are general (first-class) values** (e.g., int, float, string, etc.)
  * Able to store them in variables
  * Able to Pass them as parameters or return them from other functions
* Immutability: Working with immutable objects
  * It guarantees their state is **immutable and constant** after their creation.
  * In functional programming, immutable objects are preferred.
* No side effects: Using pure functions
  * Pure function: **Same inputs &rarr; same result**. Not able to modify the state of other objects. Not able to interact with the outside world (e.g., network, console, etc.).
  * In functional programming, pure functions are preferred.

There are some benefits.  
1. *Conciseness*: helping to **avoid duplication** in your code
    - You can make a `function` consisting of two parts: common logic and differing part.
    - You can avoid replication of common logic.
    - You can pass other function expressing differing part as parameters of `function`, and the parameters of `function` are themselves functions.
2. *Safe multithreading*
    - Using immutable data structures and pure functions &rarr; Unsafe modifications (i.e., modification of the same data from multiple threads w/o synchronization) can be prevented.
3. *Easier testing*
    - Code without side effects make easier testing possible.

Well, you can use the functional style with other programming language.  
Even so, there is a rich set of features to support functional programming in Kotlin.  
The set is consisting of:
  - Functional types
  - Lambda expressions
  - Data classes
  - A rich set of APIs in the standard library

---

# Kotlin applications
## Kotlin on the server side
Developers have been building many applications about server side in Java, mainly in the manner of extending, improving, or replacing existing system.  
New code has to integrate with existing parts of the system.  

Importantly, Kotlin has its advantage of its seamless interoperability with Java code.  
It means Kotlin will fit right in with Java-based code, and you will not face into problems.  
- Easier to maintain
- More reliable
- More compact


## Kotlin on Android
1. Kotlin can combined with a special compiler plug-in which supports Android frameworks. Thus, it makes Android development much more productive andn pleasurable experience.  
2. Common development tasks (e.g., adding listeners or binding layout elements) can require much less code or no code. The compiler sometimes generate it.
3. Kotlin's type system can precisely track null values. Thus, Kotlin helps to prevent `NullPointerException`, a common exception in Android app.
4. Kotlin is compatible with Java 6, and it can be used with Android framework.
5. Kotlin does not bring any disadvantages in performance. The efficiency of the code generated by the Kotlin compiler is as good as regular Java code. The runtime used by Kotlin is fairly small. So, there is no increase in the size of the compiled result.

---

# The philosophy of Kotlin
## Pragmatic
Kotlin is a practical language.  
There have been lots of feedback from developers both inside JetBrains and the community, and the released version of Kotlin is made by the feedback.  
Thus, Kotlin is a language helping solve real-world problems.

Well, Kotlin is not a research language, and Kotlin makers are not trying to advance the SoTA in programming language design.  
Kotlin makers are just relying on existing features and solutions in other programming languages.
- Reducing the complexity of Kotlin
- Making language to be easier

In the case of Kotlin, IntelliJ IDEA plug-in was concurrently developed with the compiler. Therefore, if new Kotlin grammer is added, it can be comprehended by not only compiler but also IDE.  
That is, designing the language and IDE are considered together, not "IDE support after designing language".  

In Kotlin, IDE can help you to discover the features of Kotlin.  
Specifically, tools (IDE) can
- Automatically detect common code patterns which can be substituted for more concise code.
- Offer to fix the code for programmer. &rarr; You can learn the features of Kotlin-style concise code.

## Concise
Kotlin is developed to ensure that all the code you write carries meaning.  
Although there are lots of boilerplate in Java, they are implicit in Kotlin. So, Kotlin code is relatively concise and clearly expresses the intent of the code.  

Thanks to **a rich standard library**, you can replace long repetitive sections of the code with method calls in library.  

Meanwhile, Kotlin does not obsess over reducing source code excessively.  
Well, Kotlin supports operator overloading, thus you can overload existing operators expressed in some signs (e.g., +, -, \*, /, etc.).  
However, Kotlin users cannot define new operators in the form of cryptic punctuation sequences (e.g., <~>, |\*>, etc.). Although cryptic punctuation sequences are smaller than words, words are easier to read and easier to find documentation on.

In conclusion, the conciseness persued by Kotlin is:
- Avoiding unneccessary repeating
- Syntax that clearly expresses the programmer's intent
- Syntax that does not obscure the intent with boilerplate
- Avoiding cryptic punctuation sequences

## Safe
Running on JVM already provides safety guarantees:
- Memory safety
- Preventing buffer overflows
- Preventing other problems from incorrect use of dynamically allocated memory
- ...

In addition, Kotlin ensures the type safety, and it comes at a smaller cost (simpler syntax) than with Java.
- It is not necessary to specify all the type declarations.
- The compiler infers the types.

Kotlin can also prevent `NullPointerException`.  
The type system of Kotlin:
- permit marking a type as nullable, using a question mark.
- track values that can and cannot be null.
- forbids operations which can result in `NullPointerException` at runtime.

Furthermore, Kotlin helps avoid `ClassCastException`.
- In Kotlin's type system, you can check the type of object, using a single operation.
  - For instance, you can utilize an operation: `if (value is String)`

## Interoperable
When using Kotlin, you can call Java methods, extend Java classes, and implement interfaces.  
You can apply Java annotations to Kotlin classes.  

Kotlin class and methods can be called like regular Java's ones.  
So, mixing Java and Kotlin is possible.

Furthermore, you can also utilize existing Java libraries.  
&rarr; No need to wrap or convert objects when  calling Java APIs from Kotlin, and vice versa.

Kotlin tooling enables cross-language projects.
- An arbitrary mix of Java & Kotlin source files can be compiled.
- It is not essential how they depend on each other.
- Also, IDE features work across languages. It enables to: 
    * Nevigate freely between Java & Kotlin source files.
    * Debug mixel-language projects.
    * Step between code written in different languages.
    * Refactor Java methods and have their use in Kotlin code correctly updated (and vice versa)

# Using the Kotlin tools
## Compiling Kotlin code
Kotlin code is stored in `.kt` files.  
`.kt` files are compiled, packaged, and executed.  
Compiled code depends on the *Kotlin runtime library*, which contains:
- the definitions of standard library classes
- extensions that Kotlin adds to the standard Java APIs

Well, Kotlin runtime library has to be distributed with your app.

```
Kotlin (.kt) / Java (.java) code file
↓
Kotlin / Java compiler  // analyzing the source code
↓
.class file   // From here, both Kotlin and Java go on the same road.
↓
Packaging
↓
.jar file
↓          ↙ Kotlin runtime library
Executed in JVM
```

### Basic format of command line
You can compile and execute your code by using the following command lines:
```
kotlinc <source file or directory> -include-runtime -d <jar name>
java -jar <jar name>
```

## Android Studio
In Android Studio, the Kotlin plug-in is available from the plug-in mannager.  
In the Settings dialog, `Plugins → Install JetBrains Plugin → Kotlin`.  

## Interactive shell (so-called *REPL*)
According to the book, REPL can be run by enter a command `kotlinc` into cmd.  
However, it is decrepated, and you have to use `kotlinc -Xrepl`.  

Additionally, I encountered some warning messages:
```
Warning: this REPL implementation is deprecated and will be removed soon.
Warning: REPL is not compatible with the Kotlin version 2.3.20, using '-language-version 1.9'.
```

So, REPL fits to:
- test basic syntaxes: `val`, `var`, function, conditional sentences, simple lambda, etc.
- basic examples in the book `Kotlin in Action`.

Not suitable to:
- latest syntaxes of Kotlin (e.g, Kotlin 2.3).
- study Android.
- practice your Android project.
- primary environment for exercising Kotlin.

## Online playground
You can visit https://try.kotl.in/, and you can write, compile, and run small Kotlin code.  
However, I use VS code or Android Studio rather than this playground.

## Java-to-Kotlin converter
### When useful? (1)
When you do not remember the exact Kotlin syntax, you can write down the corresponding Java code into a Kotlin file, and then the Java-to-Kotlin converter can automatically translate the code to Kotlin.  

### When useful? (2)
The converter can be utilized when you have to greatly modify an existing Java-based class.  
You can convert the class into Kotlin, and then you can change it in Kotlin.

Meanwhile, when you introduce a new class into an existing Java project, you can just define the new class in Kotlin.  
In this situation, the converter is not required.  

